# Synechocystis_Chemometrics
Workflow to import Raman spectra, run pretreatment regimes and perform a follow up chemometrical analysis

All raw data must be in the form of TXT files, with the wavenumber in the first column (V1) and the Absorbance/Intensity values in the second column (V2). An R-Project should be created, with a folder structure corresponding to the one outlined in the repository facilitating the workflow. 
The "Scripts" folder contains the required scripts, and can remain unchanged. The raw data in the correct format is per default stored in the "Raw_data", but can in theory be stored anywhere on your device or in a cloud. The "Graphs" folder needs to be in the defined location, here the produced graphs are deposited. 
If all folders/files/data is stored as desired, the "PreTreatment" script can be started, which automatically sources the "Functions" scripts. The most important variables that need to be modified are "Project", outlining the scope of your project and the "Location" and "Gruppen" vectors in the "My.Import" fucntion, which are vital parameters for a succesfull import of the raw data. Following the import, the spectrum can be visualized and a number of pre treatments can be applied (c.f. preTreatment file). Note that since SNV is a algorithmus working row wise, the spectral range sometimes needs to be modified before starting this treatment. 
Spectral range restriction and the removal of outlier can be performed via the "Documentations" script. The "Statistics - General" script provides the implementation of PCA, HCA, PCA and subsequent HCA and different univariant statistical methods facilitating the interpretation of PCA score values (boxplots, ANOVA,etc). IF the results of these methods are promising, the "Loadings - Spectra" script can be used to compare spectra and loadings for a better and more valid interpretation. 
All generated plots can be automatically exported as PNG figures (Default resolution = 600 DPI)
